hi I'm John Paul and yes I'm very
passionate about patron Paul Mitchell
Rach John Paul Penn and many other
things but more important I'm very
passionate about doing something on this
planet and continuing to do it that
makes it will live at her place to live
for others enjoy what you're gonna see I
[Music]
enjoyed this interview with LR because
it gave the opportunity for
entrepreneurs to see once again some of
the different things you can do to be
successful those are entrepreneurs some
of the things that really worked in life
and I love sharing the story that helps
others become successful peace love and
happiness hey guys welcome to this
episode of passion if you podcast today
it's your host Omar here and today is a
very special day because we get to
interview multi billionaire entrepreneur
John Paul DeJoria and in this interview
we get into the story of not only how
john paul co-founded Paul Mitchell
Systems which you might know from their
shampoo and conditioner at your local
salon but also how John Paul overcame
homelessness twice in his lifetime had a
single mother grew up in LA with not a
lot of money and would go on to not only
build successful company with Paul
Mitchell but also with patron who he
most recently sold for five point 1
billion dollars and of course you guys
know me I had to ask him exactly what he
did with the money the date of
transaction cleared so in this interview
we go deep into John Paul's mindset
attitude and more so than his story some
of the tactical and strategic things
that he's used to allow him to become a
multi billionaire in the process so
whatever you're after in life money
purpose or peace there will be something
for you so no further ado sit back relax
maybe even have a shot at stealing this
one because you'll enjoy a wild
interview none other than multi
billionaire John Paul shaurya enjoy hey
guys welcome to this episode of the
passionate view today we have on
America's most loved entrepreneur mr.
John Paul DeJoria himself thanks for
being on the show Shirley so growing up
you had some entrepreneurial endeavors
that is you had no idea would lead to
what it would be but talk to me later
about your early start because you
started out believe it or not selling
encyclopedias most people don't know
this
yeah actually was even before that Omar
of my first entrepreneur job I was 7
years old at the variety boys club in
East
la and we would go there in the woodshop
and they would give us 25 cents worth of
credit my brother night on would it be
enough what to buy to build a flower box
about this big this wide rounded on the
ends open on top flat on the bottom with
hooks you put on your windowsill you can
hang it up and we went out to sell it
for 50 cents now this is in the early
50s well it took us two days I think we
finally found a waitress to buy it from
us which was wonderful and we went back
we paid our 50 Cent's off we paid a
quarter I should say for the wood the
other quarter profit we did another one
we went to unsold it 50 cents for two
kids there are seven and eight and a
half years old to have 50 cents in those
days was a lot of mines my first time
prettier job then in the back of a comic
book when I was 9 years old I read
Christmas cards we send you a free kit
and all you do is you have four examples
you go around and sell Christmas cards
with somebody's name printed in now
they're gonna give you a 50% deposit you
send that in with the order okay but
when the order comes in you deliver it
they'll give you the other 50% and it's
yours well that was pretty cool I think
I sold maybe four or five people I
thought that was okay at that time I was
a nine years old Wow so then so already
at that age orange trying to get the
momentum of sales yeah you see my era
was a little different than today's era
we loved having a job other than the
flower boxes we gave most of money to my
mother at 11 years old and my brother
now was 13 by that time we had morning
paper routes with the LA Examiner we get
up in the morning fold our papers
deliver him before school and we made
about $32 something like that a month we
kept a dollar and a quarter each course
back riding gave the rest of my mom we
just thought it was the coolest thing to
have a job we weren't doing because
we're making this extra money we knew we
were which would help our family live a
better way of life but it was the fact
you can have a job well I've been
working ever since when I got into high
school I'd have a part-time job
after school all the time and then I won
the United States Navy after I got the
Navy
it's another I call it on for your job
because you're selling encyclopedias
door-to-door there
no salary commission only and you pay
for your own food your own expenses that
is tough yeah if the average
encyclopedia salesperson lasts three
days I lasted three and a half years but
I believe what they told me they said
the people are they're gonna make it are
the ones will knock on ten doors and
then if they're closed in your face
you're just as enthusiastic on door
number eleven but you got to do that
well it's pretty tough when you're out
there people are closing the door close
the door
you have nothing less you sell a set of
books people are not expecting you there
weren't even leads there well I believe
what they sets on door number 101 I was
just as enthusiastic as the first
hundred doors but it took me about a
week before I made my first sale
it was happy were you always a pretty
positive person or did you just learn
that hey rejections a part of life and
this is gonna be a part of anything I
ever want to get good at did you sort of
learn that lesson young about rejection
I was always a pretty positive person my
mom was pretty positive so I was always
pretty positive but aunt realized the
importance of learning how to overcome
rejection until I sold encyclopedias
when we were delivering our newspapers
in the morning we also if we want to go
out at night and get an extra customer
we made an extra dollar per new customer
we put on which was pretty exciting for
us so that was the launch for nourish
but as little kids you're not after a
hundred doors you after five or ten
right yeah when you're after hundreds of
doors it's a good experience in fact uh
I do tell people - the most important
things you could do as entrepreneurs in
starting a business or in getting your
business doing a little differently or
and working with somebody else it's the
same thing whether you work for yourself
or someone else
- biggest things you could do to make
yourself good is number one be prepared
for a lot of rejection kind of the
question you ask me if you're prepared
for it and it comes along it's not going
to bug you as much very very important
the second thing is make sure your
service or your product is the very best
there is then you're in the reorder
business not the selling business if you
want to go into selling business just to
sell your product well that could be a
one-time event if everything you do is
for them to like it so much they want to
use it again or if it's a one-time
product they want to tell their friends
about it now you're in love jibing your
business those are two the secrets and
smile be happy right yeah no I love that
and you've done that so well and built
it into the culture of all of your
businesses now I want to ask you did
your motivation your drive your hunger
obviously it's quite intense compared to
most people's do you feel like it was
rooted in the fact that you had a single
mother and you were always maybe you had
a you know chip on your shoulder you
were trying to prove something to the
world or was it just your natural
personality you just wanted to be really
good at things and so you excelled in
sales never being in the world I was
what I was
we were immigrants single mom dad was a
deadbeat dad and he took off before I
was two years old it was just something
we were around a positive environment we
didn't have any money
and we live in a very small little place
and that go Bart
oh we were happy we're just positive it
wasn't anything that was to prove
anything to anybody just set just how it
is and if you take a look at life you
can have your glasses they say half
empty or half full us how you look at it
now I've been homeless twice when you
are down without fear my first time was
22 years old and I had a child
homeless with a kid it was a couple
years old which would be interesting
because most people see you now in a
small T billion-dollar situation they
would never believe that a 22 you're
homeless with a kid I mean he didn't
look like the trajectory was heading
here right up yeah but when you're down
and out and you're that far down and
you've got a kid and you're kicked out
of your place because rents due you
don't have the money and your wife took
off with everything everything yep just
little kids
anyways we are just too young to get
married so you know how to make it now
when you're that low fat a friend of
mine who's a blues singer said when you
get down soloing you lock up all you can
see is an edge right when you're that
low you could only go up so instead of
you have a choice you could sit around
and blame what happened to you on
everybody else which is usually what
people do or say hey that's how things
turned out now I'm going to turn things
around
another very important thing when you're
down and out first thing people do is
blame it on everybody else but
themselves
when you start taking responsibility you
have a little different outlook you also
have the responsibility of turning
things around when I started Paul
Mitchell I was homeless once again
totally by accident and I started to cut
me out of the backseat of my car how old
were you at that time 37 that was 34 35
at that time so you were homeless at 34
35 again and what was this series of
events that led to that second time it
was just that we had money set up a half
a million bucks we need to start to
company at that kind of money and the
day I was ready to start go down the
bank and get the money and my partner
the hairdresser Paul Mitchell flew her
from Hawaii with his girlfriend and we
were ready to get the money and get
going get started I had left everything
I did my relationship wasn't working out
so left the house plenty of money for
many months with her had a few hundred
bucks in my pocket took the used car
which is 20 years old but a decent one
okay down the hill to get the money I
was gonna check into an efficiency it
all set up the money never came in no
never the guy changed his mind
1980-81 inflation in the United States
is 12 and a half percent interest rates
if you could get a loan prime rate 17
percent Wow we stayed in line to get
gasoline and interest an unemployment
was 10 a half percent the United States
the guy said you're as hostages are
still near on which they were at that
time he says it is this cetera I'm sorry
it's the last minute No
so as a matter of what are we gonna do
Paul came over he was older than me he
was on his last few dollars and what are
we gonna do is Paul looking you afford
how did you meet Paul to begin with I
met Paul 9 years prior in the beauty
industry a mutual friend of ours had
introduced us at a big beauty show baby
show we just became the best of friends
so for nine years when he or he and his
girl from come over to me in the United
continental United States they'd stay
with me my guest room when I went to
Hawaii he would go in his guest room
which was the Volkswagen bust with flat
wheels in front of us a little tiny
beach house I let my wife and I have a
little beach house at the time because
the best of friends and decided to go to
business with each other yeah and so at
what point was that where you guys said
huh you know what we might be onto
something here with
Paul Michels you know shampoo and
conditioners which you guys came to be
known for what was the point where you
guys said hmm like let's do this like
what was the well we why need to do it
because I knew the business I was in
marketing sales and structure and had
connections with product development and
I didn't do hair
Paul was a great hairdresser when the
best in the world very advanced in what
he did however he didn't do business it
was the perfect combination where these
two guys that were just the best of
friends and we knew we could do it uh
obviously we start out with nothing we
made the distal edge astir let's just
make this happen and as you will see in
your guest will see when they look at
good fortune the movie and it's on
iTunes it's on Amazon all those whether
you look at it it's the whole story of
starting in America with nothing a
couple times and making things happen
because of what you believe in but the
important thing is even we had nothing
we started giving back weather was the
first company to say we will never test
on animals and never have to this state
Wow or other things we gonna shake your
hand to the show you betcha that's
awesome it's still going on lately not
very cool now when it comes to you
actually wanting to grow the business
did you guys start it with the intention
that we want to build this big or was it
like let's just test the waters because
up until that point you probably had no
experience of the kind of success that
Paul Mitchell would grow to be so was
the intention to build a big business or
was it just to sell to salons and just
grow and see that question we knew we
would only sell it to beauty salons and
the reason we picked that area was for
two reasons one if a hairdresser who's
in hair all the time likes your product
they're gonna recommend it to their
customer to take care of their hair in
between visits to look the same they're
the experts and we didn't have a major
multi-million dollar advertising budget
go in the other direction I had been for
those last eight years nine years since
professional beauty industry of course
Paul was also what a perfect beautiful
industry to go into and I knew that I
could knock door-to-door and sell my
products without an advertising campaign
we had no money now you want to learn
from selling encyclopedias
oh yeah learn
exactly learn from selling encyclopedias
how to do without an appointment yeah
however our motivation when we start it
was not to have a giant company our
motivation start with was survival
survival I thought I have nothing I left
everything I'm doing right and God let's
just give it a shot here I'll sleep in
my car
we know our products were darn good if
people use them they want to reorder
them let's go for it it took us two
years before we knew we'd be successful
our dream when we started out was if we
could only get this company up to five
million dollars a year we'd each make
about a quarter of a million dollars
$250,000 we have it made for life
we're so excited right yeah that has
things rolled I learned how to be a
little better businessman as we got
bigger and bigger
I brought other people on board to run
operations other people are much better
than I to run other parts of the
business that was they were more
qualified to do and we had no idea in
fact when Paul died back in 1989 of
pancreatic cancer we were together he
said I believe in the afterlife
I believe that my spirit will go out and
I'll be able to look down on this planet
earth you said gosh 8pb so wonderful if
one day out there there could be a
hundred thousand you know dollars worth
of Paul Mitch I mean hundred million
dollars to the problem it could be a
hundred million dollar company one day
oh my god would this be wonderful you
know what if we could do this JP i'ma
look down and watch it I said Paul I'm
gonna build this company to at least one
hundred million dollars little extra
motivation there and that's to say we
went way beyond that but it was good
yeah good intentions and then also I
know that you came to be known for your
sales pitch right and that became what
you were coined for in the industry um
can you talk a little bit about what
your pitch was when training either
yourself initially or when training your
salespeople to go into the store put it
in their hand I know you have a sort of
routine you used to do do you mind
sharing that routine rattle the first
thing is it could not be a sales pitch
if you're selling somebody with a sales
pitch you're trying to create a sales
when you're trying to sell somebody
something instead of selling it to them
help them make the right decision and
put yourself in the reorder business for
example selling is all about here is the
feature my product enters house could
have benefits you make sure that those
features and benefits are honest uncle
lying to people don't exaggerate
here's the feature Lebrun here sells
could benefit you with our Paul Mitchell
conditioner because it was leave-in
conditioner I could put some in their
hand right now once it went on their
hand they didn't know what to do with it
and I can finish explaining we have two
hands out like this their hand in my
hand I can finish explaining and they
don't know what the world to do with
this right but I have their full
attention I said it bottled down they
see by the way rub your hands together
it neutralizes all the chemicals in your
body put on your skin it's very good for
your skin
it's a leaving conditioner there's all
these great things so that was part of
the technique and then obviously the
other part was you want to help people
make the right decision right often
people will say to you know they're not
really saying no they're saying I
haven't been convinced so it's very it's
very very important sales to realize
this in our case we have every line in
the world why do we want a new line that
no one knows okay and for us we would
say because this product saves you time
and money one shampoo incentive to a
leave in conditioner opposed to one
you've got to spend 10 minutes the back
base and waiting and then rinsing it out
of their hair saves you time and money
it's new and exciting and I will come
back show you how to sell it and from
the period of one month it's not the
hottest product and you're not totally
satisfied I will take back every bottle
you haven't used or sold out the door
and give you your money back now that's
fair enough isn't it all right and you
would not just like oh yeah and I would
give their money back yeah I believe in
our first two years only one bottle came
back so when you first asked that
because I won't ask when you first made
that offer it was part of you kind of
nervous I call man I hope they don't
take it back or was genuine confidence
it was genuine confidence there was no
doubt in our minds our product is so
good a few uses a hairdresser you want
to use it again and again and again and
we were right again within the first two
years only one bottle came back
that's incredible and then I know to
that that's at the center of your ethos
right of always having quality products
same happens with patron
you guys went in and revolutionized an
industry that before then a lot of
people thought well you can't go premium
or it can't be done and you Sir John
Paul did it can you talk a little bit
about why you think entrepreneurs
typically don't do that or why you know
what is it that entrepreneurs don't get
about that because it seems so intuitive
that you have the best products is it
just cutting costs I mean what is it do
you think that holds most entrepreneurs
back from really putting out quality
stuff it's a combination of several
things one obviously is a cost and
number two is your thinking your mindset
if your mindset is to sell something to
somebody that's your business that's
your mindset if your mindset is I want
to be in the reorder business and if
it's a one-time sale I want it to be so
good they're going to tell their friends
about it when you have that mindset well
what's gonna create reorder I like the
product so much I want to use it again
now it doesn't mean that you have to go
the cheapest or the most expensive it
means you have to have the best or
conceived as one of the best or
something that satisfied their needs
it's like marketing is fulfilling a need
in the marketplace but in such a way
that your sister your brother your best
friend's gonna use that product and say
this is really good I want to go out of
my way to order it again
salons how often do people go to salons
I think the average is once every oh
gosh for those that go once every six
weeks something like that you know to
get a haircut get a trim all right well
in between do they want to make sure
they have enough when they go back to
get enough to last from the next visit
got to be good product here that yeah
one that works that's why Paul Mitchell
my gosh you know we're will be
approaching next year almost 40 years in
business and our original product
shampoo one shampoo two in the
conditioner we still sell Proctor that
good and in my industry every three or
four years you flip products over our
products are that good that people say I
want to continue to use it it's still
the best it's still timeless Wow okay so
as you're growing your business because
a lot of entrepreneurs watch the show
and I want to ask this for them what
entrepreneurs will say well wow you
built something that's just so
intangible in my mind
would you say that as you grow as you
scale your business there was many times
where you were like ma'am I have no idea
what I'm doing right you sort of assumed
the role I mean how many times in your
career growing is you know what people
would see as multi-billionaire who has
it all together how much of the time are
you really just sort of figuring it out
as you go as opposed to knowing what
you're doing every step of the way for
people out there I knew some of the
stuff I was doing but especially how to
run and get it evolving it cut me there
did more than four five million dollars
here let alone to the hundreds of
millions billion you know the value of
this company my god you learn along the
way I kept trying to learning and trying
to do everything after about nine years
I realized man I can only do so much
that's when I brought in people like
Luke Jacob Ellis who was far more
experienced than I was and running
warehouses running inventories and
things of that nature
and all of a sudden he had this
responsibility another person was great
at this and they had that responsibility
so you have to learn once you get pretty
big how to find the very best people
better than you are I say to management
all the time whether it's government
management independent management or
corporate manager when I lecture always
find somebody in your department or in
your business that can do it better than
you are and hire that person I tell my
division heads here and all other comes
in the ball with guys even though you're
full operations you run the businesses
for me make sure this that when you hire
someone that person you hire has the
capability being better than you
now what if they go on and you don't go
on you are one of my best managers any
manager that's a brain tire someone
better than they are and as a better
capability that's the kind of person I
want to board for the future mmm I love
that now let me ask you this what's your
process for decision-making obviously a
business is big whether it's hiring
building a culture choosing colors logos
ads marketing you have to make lots of
decisions all the time without all the
pieces of information what's been your
rule of thumb or what have you learned
after decades of making decisions what
does John Paul DeJoria is you know
system for effective decision making
well I'm very lucky now because with all
my various companies whether its patron
whether it was Paul Mitchell John Paul
Pat block mobile whatever I have great
managers great presidents great people
that make some very very good decisions
however I'll commit
more of a creative end of PR and and say
hmm here's my input on this done and
everything but on some of the things and
I go by how do I feel
you know how does my spirit feel about
it how we initially feel my intuition
yeah you know how do I feel exactly you
know what's what's my intuition on this
one then does it make sense and then
from a consumers point of view if I was
this person how would I look at it and
all too often I'm saying by the way that
eight and ten point type
make it bigger I want to kind of read it
without their glasses on that's a no-no
jp's come you better increase that a
little bit and I have really great
people that do most of that big
decision-making but for me as what
what's that intuition how do I feel
about it how do I think others will feel
about it is a price properly and is it
extremely great and I will use just
about every product of myself whether it
was patron that I built over the years
how do I like the taste or the Paul
Mitchell other than you know obviously
not I don't have a permanent ways
there's a lot of products we have I
don't use on me John Paul pet I used
every products on me and I don't have
ticks
so I'm flea and tick shampoo probably
weren't pretty good for the diner yes
but I would use the products on may to
to give them my opinion nice how about
on your way up when you didn't have
managers in place and you have to make
decisions what was your system was it
really just that intuition ablai system
was intuition and oh who do I call to
see what they would do but it was
usually my intuition and I was very
lucky most the time I was right but many
times I was wrong that's very
interesting that you learn from your
mistakes yeah that's true and it's very
interesting that you say that because a
lot of people you know built big
businesses will say that hey I didn't
all the information so any time I hit a
roadblock it was a matter of who not how
right who can I find how important do
you find networking is or building a
resources of people of rolodex of people
who can help you support you how
important is it to build your network if
I had them the early days would have
been great I didn't have it in the early
days so most of let's say the first five
years are just my intuition of what I
thought would be right and if I didn't
have an answer I would try something and
again luckily I was right most the time
and there were times row wasn't right I
came out okay
yeah and then how about meditation was
that ever something I was a part of your
life forever
Rutina meditation or anything like that
I think the closest meditation for me is
the majority of times I'll wake up in
the morning do what most people do go in
the bathroom go right back to bed and
just take a couple of minutes to be in
the here and now
now that's difficult because I'm not a
regular meditator well how do you be in
the here and now that's almost like a
meditation when your mind is totally
blank well you could sit up in your room
and just have your mind blank hard to do
because things rush through your head so
what do I do I look at the ceiling oh
that's the ceiling OOP that's the pain
that's the TV set to just focus here
then I focus on air going in me air
going out of me as I do things like that
then all of a sudden for a couple of
minutes I blank my mind out period then
I go about my day you become more
present more tuned to the moment this
matter of a couple of minutes and then
you go right through so talk to me a
little about patron obviously you know
Paul Mitchell had built this massively
successful business for you guys and
then you add patron to the mix how did
that come about what was the start of
that because I know most recently there
was an acquisition in early January with
Bacardi was actually in May it finished
in April in May of this year yeah there
was a very large act but it was the
biggest in the industry 5.1 billion I
put 1 billion dollar valuation that's
correct so I got to ask you what does it
feel like the morning that the
acquisition is done and that whole
clears you wake up the deals done how do
you first thing I did was immediately
once I knew was in the bank I wrote a
check for 15 million dollars to charity
it's the first thing I'd add period and
then put all the money away for the
future I have enough to handle things
now I don't want to play with this money
for the next year I gave it to experts
to take care of it for them to manage
the money I have enough to exist off the
money I make right now and this way
don't do some stupid a lot of people get
a lot of money they're putting it here
in there and just let me give to the
experts you guys take care of that
that's from my future other than I'm
pulling 50 million out for charitable
work now for people that really need it
and is there any part of you at times
that goes back to that young kid growing
up in Echo Park LA may be the tough
times along the way sleeping in your car
where you wake up and pinch yourself and
go oh how did this happen but constantly
I'm saying creator of souls thank you
for this incredible life you've given me
in the health of me and my family and
happiness
thank you so much let me go forth and do
good things to make the planet better
because I'm here and you feel like that
energy is what keeps things flowing
correct note that energy is just what I
feel
I don't do to keep things flowing just
what I feel and I just give that
gratitude and whether you're an atheist
or they believe in God let's call it God
for now our Creator of soul right is
we're all part of that and maybe some of
us have been given a little extra
whether you call a good-looker got
opportunities to go along with or just
something that was good in our lives or
a good break in life whatever to make
something happen
success unshared is failure often people
make so much as to make more and more
and more and more but don't share it
with people and that's that so success
ensured is failure and when you're
making it and you're doing good you're
happy with yourself mmm powerful and
then I know I asked about patron but if
we get into a little bit of that what
what was the seed or how did patron
start what was the city around with
Martin Crowley who was going down to
Mexico I went God bankrupt in the
hospitality business so a friend
introduced him to me and I put him in
the architectural business he go to
Mexico buy furniture and pavers come to
the United States and sell it to
restaurants or architects for their
model homes right little niche business
we're doing pretty good and I was
building a house there in Malibu for my
family for the future and I said Martin
when you go down there we need some
pavers and some things here some you
know steel some wood whatever especially
granite you know a different stone
that's ground for these pillars go down
there and see you know with the prices
but by the way because we were drinking
tequila at that time remember margarita
I said see what the Mexican people drink
the aristocrats drink and maybe bring
back a bottle or two it was okay so he
went down there with one of my builders
Jack and they went across this one place
and brought back a couple of bottles in
this very thin long bottle it was the
smoothest I ever taste in my life really
and the Martin says but JP I met this
guy named Francisco al Korres that works
for this little distillery says he could
make it even smoother now this little
distillery will make it for us with
Francisco's little touch in there there
charges some money is expensive to make
but we go into business I thought great
we could make it smooth let's do it yeah
I'll order a thousand cases what year is
this this is 1989 early 1989 Wow a bar
order a thousand cases which was twelve
thousand bottles and let's see what
happens that if nobody bought it will
for ten years every gift you can imagine
is a great bottle of tequila Martin and
Allah know is with him found this bottle
that was a out of recycled glass I
thought God we could do this out of
recycled glass it goes along with my
philosophy yeah we can make him out of
recycled glass and at first no one
wanted our product the average tequila
sold for about four or five dollars a
bottle the best one was about fourteen
dollars a bottle back in 1989 because of
the quality and what we put into it we
have to sell it for 3795 a bottle Wow no
one would touch us
no distributor with touches but it was
think true to your ethos you have
premium quality and the market will
adjust to the premium that's right woody
yeah we went to Wolfgang Puck yet
Spago's he's a friend of mine goes JP
this is the best I've ever had
well if we give it to your celebrity
sure JP give me a bottle as you know
Martin went to ba cantina
we kind of built it like that ground
roots like encyclopedia sales where did
you come up with the name patron Martin
and Ilana we're working with names and
founded they said I think the name
patron me like the boss the good boss
wife a good boss right is available
Christ let's go for here's extra money
try and get easy we could get a
trademarking trademarking trademark and
then later on we found there was someone
in mexico that some called reserva del
potro whatever and of course we gave
them money to buy that out right it was
brilliant it's just a brilliant name and
then how long did it take from when
thing you know you started to things
took off and I gave me the rundown on
the story but what was the timeline
before you really started seeing a
momentum on sales when they say the
momentum of sales probably didn't really
happen big time until towards the middle
of 1990s around the middle we started we
did okay and we were doing good but
right around the middle is when we
started going to 50,000 60,000 cases a
year and that's when it started really
going now when she really took off
was in 1993 when Martin unfortunately
died I'm sorry 2003 Martin had died and
Edie Brown who was our Vice President of
Sales who should have been pressed and
immediately made him president and he
put into it everything for example we
pulled out the models he was using girls
as models and made patron the image not
pretty girls right now there are a lot
of pretty girls right and he redid our
entire team then it all since started
taking off like that
well no one had any idea in the world we
would become by dollar volume the
largest tequila company in the world and
stay all high-end that's incredible to
never give up we can make more money if
we had less of a product quality never
gave up never gave up I never tweaked on
your laurels never treat I don't know
fully made it better better better
that's a real secret keep your products
so good people one reordered it now
since that time since we started there's
gotta be - 250 tequila company said
about right
none of them close to patron I believe
our closest competitor that's owned by a
giant company did close to 500 a
thousand cases we did far in excess of 3
million for it exists at the peak how
many cases a year were you guys done far
in excess of 3 million I'm sure by now
it's probably over 4 billion yeah and
then how did you feel when you started
singing ingrained into the culture
writing songs patron on ice you can have
whatever you like you know oh happy over
200 hip hop songs were written about it
country-western songs popular songs very
happy excited we didn't pay for it
really so we went to some of these
people and said and I went to some of
the rap singers this is so cool why this
is JP cuz we love your product we love
patron and it's at our culture now it
makes you feel good a lot of us drink
some patron and not do some of the drugs
we get kind of that same feeling because
it's so good we don't get sloppy drunk
but we try and drink responsibly so good
keep that responsible drinking up you
know keep that in there and then it was
part of your guys's designed to to make
the bottle different to make it totally
different I mean what was the what was
the thought process behind the design
process the beginning was they brought
me a bottle that a lot of Martin
that was out of recycled glass at look
like that we thought that's perfect
looks like something old that a pirate
and old the keel are up a trouble would
have right and at first we had a glass a
topper on it with cork and then that
kept on separates we just want pure cork
and made it cool-looking and never
changed I never looked back nope okay
how about the tough times because we've
talked a lot about the successes talk to
me about some challenges that maybe
maybe you haven't shared before it could
be financial it could be whatever just
managing so many moving parts talking
about some of the toughest challenges
you've dealt with maybe that you haven't
shared before and how you overcame them
if you wanted to a lot of we shared
before but perhaps one or two may not
have but you're viewing on is will
figure it up and they murder before what
was the very beginning was survival when
you only have a few hundred dollars in
your pocket in my case too proud to tell
my mom who lived in LA mom I'm going to
my room it's empty feed me for the next
few months okay I've left everything
behind I have no money
that was tough had to live in my car and
learn how to live off two dollars and
fifty cents a day and I did it hard that
is challenging how long were you living
in my car I thought two weeks in the car
yeah and then Joanna ped and an actress
of the day giving me a room in her house
found it I was living in my car found
and then still is living off two dollars
and fifty cents a day for breakfast and
for dinner it was some tough times and
then to call people every month for
almost two years the check I'll
delivered next day buts in the Vale jp2
I'll come down yeah it took two years a
lot of people say with all your
challenges and your bills are late and
you can't sleep and I nestra there were
nights I could not sleep because I knew
I couldn't pay the bills now did that
help me no it doesn't do any out but
you're just worrying about it since I
tell people hey if that happens to you
write on a piece of paper all these
problems in your life whether they're
personal or business that keep you from
sleeping what's going through your head
over and over again write on a piece of
paper and just tape it to your bathroom
mirror and now say hey I don't have to
think about it it'll be there in the
morning
and you rest more easier big challenge
was how to survive when you have bill
money but we pulled it off mm-hmm and
then how about in terms of you when you
sort of later in your career you've
experienced all these different things
what have you found to be the most
meaningful experiences of your life
because from the outside looking in you
know I'm sure you get all the time
people think of billionaire they have no
idea that there's so much more to it
whatever you found to be some of the
most rewarding or fulfilling experiences
is it employees is it the customers I
mean obviously it's not just the money
no it's a combination with the greatest
joy come from combination many things
one my customers love us and we have a
retention of most all of our customers
because they love what we do they love
what we stand for the love our culture
big deals people love our culture by
giving back whether it's for Waterkeeper
lights the sea Shepherd mobile loaves
and fish is taking the homeless off the
streets or just all the things we do now
on a global basis to give back they
really light that appreciate that and
that gets me off my staff members I
think we only have around uh maybe a
turnover of close to a hundred people in
39 years almost that said no way yep
people love what that we do but we love
the way we work with them very proud of
my people I'm their people they're my
people very very proud and very very
proud of having the ability to make
extra money where I could give back and
change the world in fact a projects
going on right now where I've always
wanted to change the world for millions
of people for better now I've got some
projects going though where I'll be
changing the life of hundreds of
millions of people to do better in life
and upgrade their economic situation and
that makes me very very happy
that what I'm doing is good and I'm
proud of now along the way there's
challenges people want to take advantage
of horn I have been sued several times
all frivolous lawsuits but he's a
billionaire so he must be at fault right
all these fruit and I have to find him
what a pain
and I'm singled out because I have all
this money right right which is stupid
right there are frivolous lawsuits but
other people run across a safe because
he's got money maybe he's bad let's get
part of it that's big the biggest
disappointment is frivolous lawsuits for
people saying well he would did do the
right things he's a billionaire look
we're gonna so he must have cheated
there's twelve people we're gonna sue
but let's only get him because he's got
the money that that's a downside other
than that it's wonderful to be able to
give back and be careful with people
because people will do that to you
and for entrepreneurs or leaders
listening how did you build the culture
to the staff and I'm pleased obviously
as you grow in scale it's about putting
the right people in places you can't be
there but what tips would you give
entrepreneurs out there who are looking
to build a culture for their
organization their company their
business how do you create a culture
like that and transcend it to where you
know people want to stay question be a
culture of heart how would you like to
be treated if you could be treated I
work for companies where the guy said do
it this way well why just do it that's
how you manage people you work with them
I can remember ties onward for others
where things were really good in my life
and maybe had a dollar for lunch you
couldn't buy very much for dollar so no
problem the minute we could afford it
everyone that worked at Paul Mitchell
gets free lunch
they still do they would run menus and
they still do I still do okay so you
look at what people need what people
want profit sharing health care we
provide all of that for our people so
they're happy they could grow they have
a savings account that we participate in
with profit sharing we make people happy
we look grow together because we look at
what would they like how could we treat
them we had a good year let's give some
bonuses out mm-hmm and I think what
you're saying really is how would you
want to be treated exactly you were them
how would you want your employer to
treat you and you just sort of reverse
engineer and land that out and by
example like we're very giving you know
we do something we must turn down every
month many many requests cuz we do too
many I think last cow this is JP you've
given to 167 different causes stop we
don't have the time the energies you
know okay so we slow down a little bit
here undoing that but we keep on giving
now our staff feels it they love being
part of giving okay so one day I came
here last year and everyone's gone but
the receptionist where did we go this
afternoon Oh JP they all volunteered to
go down to and this was the California
office to go down to Santa Monica and
clean up the beaches I said wow that's
great they say do it all the time they
volunteered to do it because it's the
thing to do now I'm not at that office
very much maybe once every three weeks
I'll come to California come in for a
day or two and shake hands do a little
bit public relations but they're doing
without me being here watch
didn't even know about it that's
beautiful our schools this is the
greatest example of a promise we have in
the United States now over a hundred
maybe close to hundred twenty Paul
Mitchel schools part of our curriculum
is giving back our schools participate
in fundraisers and they raise a lot of
money we have raised today in the last
15 years millions of dollars I think the
average maybe a couple million a year at
least these are students half the money
stays in the local community the other
half goes to great causes for the United
States and other parts of the world so
they learn while they're in school
joyous things like a car wash to raise
money a cut-a-thon need to come up with
all kinds of ways every dime they raised
goes to the charity every dime they
raise to our Paul Mitchell school
charities we the school department
underwrite the entire charity so every
dime it cost to run and operated and
Minister it is either done by volunteers
or we pay for it every dime goes to so
they learn as part of the curriculum the
joy giving back well some of these
children ever meet the survivors these
little children whose parents have died
of AIDS they just one day two 12 years
old in Africa that people wonder the
throw away that we save their lives and
educate them give a place to live no but
they know they did something for
somebody else asking nothing in return
and how good it feels
that's our Paul Mitchell school culture
and boy does it work and it makes people
better off sometimes children or adult
children could talk to their parent
where they haven't talked to their
parent in many years they learn how to
communicate it's all about giving back
and loving one another and just being
selfish for yourself and not caring
about the other person thinks it's part
of the culture we teach in our schools
and of course with our company that's
beautiful and it seems like you were
always like that because even we didn't
have money I read something I think it
was an article where you said even when
you didn't have money that you would
still give a dime if you had it you know
the end of a dime out of a dollar you're
not gonna do a billionaire or when I'm
rich I'll give Christmastime and that's
also a good fortune how my mom we had
nothing we gave a dime to the Salvation
Army and why we did it what mom said and
then always stuck with me even my days
when I used to ride with the Satan
slaves in the Hells Angels
in California you're a rebel aren't you
Jim let's just say I was different time
free-spirited it's different times okay
I used to ride with them we shared in
the school I would let's just say I went
through the 60s whatever I had but even
during those times I would go to
Griffith Park and they would have
feedings at Thanksgiving and a Christmas
time where I would just go there one a
volunteer to be on the line to serve
people food for Thanksgiving or
Christmas and there were lines of people
you know going all over the park but we
would serve them free food and made me
feel good I did something to get back
absolutely and we actually have an event
we have these passion pay shirts where
we actually for every shirt purchase we
donate a meal and a shirt to the
homeless in need for the holidays yeah
so we're very aligned with you in that
one I want to ask a couple last
questions here before we wrap up so
there's a lot of entrepreneurs watching
and a lot of Marcin here wondering like
what was JP's mindset what was his
motivation so I want to ask obviously
you wanted to create a great product the
or durable product serve people help the
world but how much of it was I want to
make a lot of money
I mean even if that was a parallel
motivation was that in there or not
really was that kind of a byproduct I
mean obviously it was important but did
you have the aspiration for hundreds of
millions or billions or was that not
really the dialogue what was inside your
head absolutely not the whole thing is
if we can only do five million dollars a
year while we make a quarter million
each were set for life and then has to
cut me grew that we realized hey not
only could the company grow up we could
actually do things like maybe buy a nice
house one day maybe buy a new car I
never owned a new car in my life until
1985 and we started Paul Mitchell 1980
it was the first my enough money fell
coffin enough to actually buy my first
new car was like was your first splurge
first a new car first versus Anouk I
bought a new car no no it was a sedan
but it was into it it was a Mercedes so
was it Mercedes then I just felt like on
top of the world like Janis Joplin had a
song Lord won't you buy LSA these fans
you know yeah and you're just playing
the music Wow finally living the
American dream so it was great well the
American dream to me is to be happy have
the opportunity
whether you're working for someone else
or whether you start your own business
to be happy people have enough money to
buy yourself a house and live okay
that's the American dream and have a
shot at having a big business or little
business on your own and making some
money for a better life for your family
that's a dream to keep on going up
having an opportunity that dream is
still alive today inflation is not 12
and a half percent right unemployment is
not ten and a half percent interest
rates are not 17 percent lowest interest
rate and our employment today my god is
less than four percent you know so they
have a better opportunity today to be
able to start a business than ever
before and you have the internet in my
day you tipped and we had telephones we
would dial or push the button on we'd
have all cell phones the cell phones
were this big if you could afford one I
think yeah when we were four or five
years in business I bought one of those
big ones so when you see the generation
now you think man you guys have so many
tools you have no excuse to not research
though so okay when you see
entrepreneurs now what do you think most
of them are doing in effectively because
I'm sure at this level you've dealt with
many CEOs who do really well you've seen
people crash and burn
what are you know what do you notice are
patterns of executives or leaders who
build companies that actually work does
it speak just to what you've already
said about quality products putting
people first I mean what is the common
denominator among companies and leaders
that succeed versus those who constantly
fails it's all that you said but I would
throw in there rejection and it's only
human nature when people keep rejecting
your friends your family this is not
going to work you shouldn't be doing
this to do something else
no the person doesn't want to buy it if
you know your product or your service is
the best you could possibly do and you
will overcome rejection you're gonna
have a heck of a good chance of making
it having that positive attitude of
drive drive drive look at Fred Smith
Federal Express several times he was
turned down he just kept on going for it
now it's just a huge company but there
are many companies like that to give an
example many you've got to stick with
what you believe in some are gonna make
it and some won't
I've started other entrepreneur jobs
along the way or businesses that just
didn't make it but you learn yeah and of
course we only hear about the success
as desc we only hear about the poor
Mitchell in the transcript so okay quick
question what's the worst advice you've
ever gone in your career oh I got a lot
of bad advice Mike I couldn't tell you
the worst coz there probably several
worst recessions like Oh put some money
in that and just at work out there were
several on the way I couldn't pick out
anyone as the worst one but there's
several we all get several things we
make a decision and oh my god always
give an advice and that was wrong all
you do is learn from it try not to make
that same mistake again and if you make
it a second time shame on you make sure
there's never a third what's the best
advice that you would give somebody else
looking to build a big business build a
meaningful business impact the world
what would be john paul looking back on
your years what would be your best
advice to people out there looking to
make the life work a combination of make
your product or service the best it is
so you could be in the reorder business
not in the order business number two
don't give up be prepared for a lot of
rejection and then remember successful
people do all the things on successful
people don't want to do like work from
morning till night work on the weekends
not give up and the most important thing
is as you grow remember this success
unshared is failure you want to be happy
in your life and take care of your
people I love that okay now this is the
last question before we play a game so
typically at the end of every interview
we play a game called first things first
where I rifle off ten words or phrases
and it's like a relation game you tell
me the first word or phrase that comes
to mind but before that I have one last
question and that is for people watching
us that have seen what you've you know
built in the world have seen what you
know you've done the impact you know
they followed your story through the
roller coaster maybe they've watched
good fortune and they themselves might
be stuck in a rut maybe they're maybe
their business is you know not doing so
hot maybe there's a salesperson and
there's debating quitting maybe their
relationships not doing so hot or maybe
they're in a successful business but
their unfulfilled I'm sure you've seen
it but they're just stuck in life what
would be John Paul DeJoria is best piece
of advice is somebody out there who's
just stuck and looking to make their
life work go get rent it or buy it's
only a few dollars now
good fortune the documentary movie okay
and you'll see what I mean once you see
it okay
it covers several types of being stucked
several times of being everything you
possibly imagined in your life but how
to overcome it with kindness in a good
way
watch that I think it's gonna answer
your questions I love that okay so you
ready for the game
jerk all right here we go so again ten
words and phrases first word that comes
to mind the only rule is that you can't
repeat yourself twice hmm makes sense so
the first word or phrase or let's go to
show you all right first word money I
just to me popped up mobile loaves and
fishes because I was able to give them
more money for the homeless people
building an ecological Center for them
that gives you entrepreneurship and work
mm-hmm
challenges oh my gosh all the ones I've
been through for the last 74 years
[Laughter]
homelessness I've been there twice your
dreams my dreams are still my dreams and
when it turns out of my life that my
regrets take the place of my dreams then
I'm getting old passion how you truly
feel passion is so strong it's got to be
part of what you do your passion about
it not just do it because you have to
the 5.1 billion dollar acquisition with
Bacardi and patron very nice valuation
on the company very nice valuation hit a
homerun did something really really good
and gives me the opportunity to do other
things and be very proud of being the
founder of patron spirits what your mom
would say if she saw you right now in
this office and what you built in oil
honey I love you that's my boy your
wishes for people out there watching
this interview who want to make their
life work to make your life work be sure
that you look at those around you to
make their life work at the same time
then you move forward together the
frequency of this planet is rising every
one of you out there don't care how old
you are have noticed this last year went
by faster than any year in your life the
frequency is rising
things are happening quicker as you do
things make sure others in your life are
part of it
don't just single yourself out and then
as you go along help either
along the way mmm beautifully put and
then teamwork teamwork is so important
if you are the boss and you have people
telling them then what to do without
them being part of it you're not going
to accomplish anything a great example
is when I was in the Navy I went right
out of high school just an ordinary guy
but in the Navy they teach ordinary guys
like me and others how to work together
as a team and achieve extraordinary
results we do that in our businesses and
I'm the last one here Eddie it's more of
a question does money buy happiness
money helps with happiness because you
have to worry about not sleeping it
helps but does it by total happiness
absolutely not
I know of some people that are very very
well-off that aren't really happy or are
ovary statistical with themselves
they're only happy with some good
happens to them not for others to be
success and share this failure so what
is happiness to you this is the final
question what does happiness truly mean
to jump all these happiness to me is how
you feel waking the way with a happy
face knowing what you do is the greatest
good for the greatest number and that
you're benefiting others on this planet
while you're here a little bit like
paying some rent for being on the planet
Earth and being fortunate enough to have
a good life for you and your family I
love that I feel like you would be just
as happy whether you were a billionaire
or not you would be in this mindset
would you agree yeah I've been pretty
happy guy most of my life yeah my boss
situation money helps a situation course
it does but if I had a choice of being
wealthy but not as happy as I am
or as happy who I was when I wasn't
wealthy or traded 19 happiness in my
opinion in priorities in life our
happiness first health second and wealth
is next one happiness no those are two
things that are the most precious thing
she could have in your life well thank
you so much for my pleasure sir your
audience
peace love and happiness absolutely get
all cameras okay guys next time make
sure to check out the link below we'll
see you guys next time
thank you for being one of the
passionate
if you guys enjoyed that video be sure
to hit that subscribe button right now
because every week eaten is a very best
inputs on the government content
interviews and insights help inspire you
to take your life in your dreams and
make them a reality and also if you
don't know how to look between guests
same way I have you can check the link
below for my top three secrets so if you
have a podcast or a show or whatever is
you want to collaborate with them if you
click that link below I'll give you
those top three secrets to help you get
in touch with anybody and also don't
forget that the passionate view is
available on media platforms as well so
you can subscribe to the podcast and
until next time thank you for being one
of the passionate
[Music]
you